Usecase: User wants to prepare update certificate on the aws test system.

Technical module
AWS CLI
AWS certificate manager
Ansible
Jenkins
GIt
Python
AWS IAM

Prequisities:
Aws Infrastrure is already created.


Input:
Environment selection to update the ssl certificate.
Selection of aws test system to update ssl certificate.

Output:
Update aws test system with ssl certificate.

STeps

User action:
User select the environment in which certificate need to be update.
user need to identify on aws system certificate neeto to be update or assign.
Create an IAM user with appropriate permissions and generate an IAM access key and secret key for authentication with AWS.

System action:
Key step: Runs the automated configuration management script to create or update 
the certificate to the aws test system.
	Configuration management tool uses the provided IAM access key and secret key to authenticate with AWS and import the SSL certificate to Certificate Manager.
	
Validate the newly assigned or updated certificate to the aws test system.
Store the SSL certificate file and key file in HashiCorp Vault.


Technical specification:

Create an Ansible playbook that performs the following steps:
a. Authenticates with HashiCorp Vault using the provided URL and token and retrieves the SSL certificate file and key file.
b. Imports the SSL certificate to AWS Certificate Manager.
c. Creates a new version of the SSL certificate on the certificate manager and extracts the certificate's ARN.
d. Updates the Elastic Load Balancer's SSL certificate with the new version.

Create a Jenkins job to trigger the Ansible playbook, passing the required inputs as parameters. In the job configuration, provide the following parameters:

HashiCorp Vault URL
HashiCorp Vault token
AWS Region name
Elastic Load Balancer name
IAM Access Key
IAM Secret Key

Execute the Ansible playbook via the Jenkins job to update the SSL certificate on the Elastic Load Balancer in AWS.

Verify that the SSL certificate has been updated on the Elastic Load Balancer by checking the SSL certificate details on the Elastic Load Balancer in the AWS console.

Store the SSL certificate file and key file in HashiCorp Vault
